website/docs: Clarify frontend development. Document local overrides. (#13586)
goauthentik/authentik: website/docs/developer-docs/setup/frontend-dev-environment.md

---
title: Frontend development environment
sidebar_label: Frontend development
tags:
    - development
    - contributor
    - frontend
    - docker
---

If you're focusing solely on frontend development, you can create a minimal development environment using Docker and Node.js. This setup allows you to make and preview changes to the frontend in real-time, without needing to interact with the backend.

### Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en) (22 or later)
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) (Latest Community Edition or Docker Desktop)

> - [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) (Compose v2 is recommended)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) (Compose v2)
```

    cd authentik
    ```

    :::info Beta images
    By default, authentik will use the latest stable Docker images.
    You can opt into using beta images during development by creating a `.env` file in the root of the repository with the following variables:

    ```shell
    AUTHENTIK_IMAGE=ghcr.io/goauthentik/dev-server
    AUTHENTIK_TAG=gh-next
    AUTHENTIK_OUTPOSTS__CONTAINER_IMAGE_BASE=ghcr.io/goauthentik/dev-%(type)s:gh-next
    AUTHENTIK_LOG_LEVEL=debug
    ```

    :::

2. From the cloned repository, follow the Docker Compose [installation instructions](../../install-config/install/docker-compose).

3. Create a Docker Compose override to mount the local configuration file (`local.env.yml`) and ESBuild's output directory (`web`).

    ```yaml title="docker-compose.override.yml"
    services:
        server:
            volumes:
                - ./web:/web
                - ./local.env.yml:/local.env.yml
    ```

    By creating this file in the root of the repository, Docker will automatically mount the web files generated by the build process. The `local.env.yml` mount is optional, but allows you to override the default configuration.

> 4. From the cloned repository root, install the front-end dependencies via NPM.

Reviewer 2: This feels more natural, what do you think?

```suggestion
4. From the cloned repository root, install the front-end dependencies using NPM.
```

    ```shell
    cd web
    npm ci
    ```

> 5. From the cloned repository root, start the front-end build script.

Reviewer 2: Feels more direct, what do you think?
```suggestion
5. From the cloned repository root, run the front-end build script.
```

    ```shell
    make web-watch
    ```

> 6. From the cloned repository root (in a new terminal), start Docker Compose to run the backend services.

Reviewer 2: Here's what I suggest: Definitely some wording changes near the end of the sentence, the rest is up to you:

 ```suggestion
6. In a new terminal, navigate to the cloned repository root and start the backend containers with Docker Compose.
```

```suggestion
6. From the cloned repository root (in a new terminal), start the backend services using Docker Compose.
```

Reviewer: Are you providing two options @dominic-r ? Haha generous of you!  

I like starting the sentence with "In a new terminal, navigate to the cloned..." which I think @GirlBossRush is what you and I went with at some point?

> 6. From the cloned repository root (in a new terminal), start Docker Compose to run the backend services.

Reviewer 2: Also, how would this exactly work? Running the docker compose command runs the entire stack including the frontend. We override ESBuild's dist, but we still start all containers

    ```shell

>     docker-compose up

Reviewer 2: Since Compose V2 is recommended, there should be no hyphen between docker and compose

Reviewer: it's a command not English lol @dominic-r !

Reviewer 3: +1 on `docker compose up` to make sure that is v2

Reviewer: ah I stand corrected! Last year I learned that the hyphen is no longer needed (in the command) with v2, and then forgot. thanks @melizeche !

>     docker-compose up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    docker compose up
```
